rename and update Backwards Compatibility (#2)
galaio/BEPs: BEPs/BEP-525.md

      - [Vote v1](#vote-v1)
      - [Transactions v1](#transactions-v1)
  - [4. Backwards Compatibility](#4-backwards-compatibility)
    - [4.1 Validator Operator](#41-validator-operator)
    - [4.2.RPC Providers And Other Full Nodes Operators](#42rpc-providers-and-other-full-nodes-operators)
    - [4.3 MEV](#43-mev)
  - [5. License](#5-license)

## 1. Summary

> It is a new network topology, which only accepts validators or validator authorized nodes tp join and transactions in this network will be forwarded directionally to a few validators that are most likely to produce the next block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a new network topology, which only accepts validators or validator-authorized nodes to join, and transactions in this network will be forwarded directionally to a few validators that are most likely to produce the next block.
```

Reviewer 2: "which only accepts" -> that only accepts

> It is a new network topology, which only accepts validators or validator authorized nodes tp join and transactions in this network will be forwarded directionally to a few validators that are most likely to produce the next block.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a new network topology that only accepts validators or nodes authorized by validators. Transactions in this network will be forwarded directly to a few validators who are most likely to produce the next block.
```
maybe like this it's better

> It is a new network topology, which only accepts validators or validator authorized nodes tp join and transactions in this network will be forwarded directionally to a few validators that are most likely to produce the next block.

Author: ```suggestion
It is a new network topology, that only accepts validators or validator authorized nodes tp join and transactions in this network will be forwarded directionally to a few validators that are most likely to produce the next block.
```

## 2. Motivation

> - For low network latency between validators: transaction latency is one of the key user experience. As BSC targets to short its block interval to sub-second, it is quite crucial to reduce the network latency between validators. Current P2P gossip based network is good at broadcasting blocks/transactions to the whole network, but it is not efficient enough, i.e. it would take lots of network bandwidth and also cost non-negligible latency.

Reviewer: ```
transaction latency is one of the key user experience.
```
I think we could add a new paragraph here to describe the modification of the transaction.

> - For low network latency between validators: transaction latency is one of the key user experience. As BSC targets to short its block interval to sub-second, it is quite crucial to reduce the network latency between validators. Current P2P gossip based network is good at broadcasting blocks/transactions to the whole network, but it is not efficient enough, i.e. it would take lots of network bandwidth and also cost non-negligible latency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For low network latency between validators: as BSC targets to short its block interval to sub-second, it is quite crucial to reduce the network latency between validators. Current P2P gossip based network is good at broadcasting blocks/transactions to the whole network, but it is not efficient enough, i.e. it would take lots of network bandwidth and also cost non-negligible latency.
```

- For MEV protection: validators are the key role in the network, it is reasonable that validators have the highest priority to get the transactions. Directed txpool means transactions would be forwarded to a small subset of validators that are most likely to produce the next block. It could avoid exposing users transactions directly to public txpool, so users would less likely to face malicious MEV attacks.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For E2E latency: transaction latency is one of the key user experiences. Directed TxPool can accelerate transaction confirmation times while reducing the risk of malicious MEV attacks.
```

## 3. Specification
### 3.1.Validator Dedicated Network(VDN)
The general network topology can be described by the following diagram:

![overview](./assets/BEP-525/3-1.png)

Basically validators would be able to find and connect with each other to reduce the network latency.

Here is the description of these roles in VDN:
- **VDN-BootNode**: It helps validators discover each other and establish connections, and only validators registered with the staking contract are allowed to connect.
- **Validator**: joins the network through the VDN-BootNode, discover and connect with other validators in the VDN, and exchange messages.

> - **Validator-Sentry**(optional): it acts as a bridge between public network and validator. Transactions can be sent to this sentry node through RPC calls or through the current P2P protocol, then it will forward transactions to the corresponding validator nodes. It will also broadcast blocks produced by validators to public network. It is optional, validator can receive RPC call or P2P messages directly from public network, but the validator would have security risks. Validator can setup 1 or more sentry nodes, which could make it more robust. And validators can also share sentry nodes to save some resource cost.

Reviewer: ```
Transactions can be sent to this sentry node through RPC calls or through the current P2P protocol,
```

Does the sentry accept RPC call with transaction?

Author: yes, it can accept RPC call, depends on validator's policy

> - **Validator-Sentry**(optional): it acts as a bridge between public network and validator. Transactions can be sent to this sentry node through RPC calls or through the current P2P protocol, then it will forward transactions to the corresponding validator nodes. It will also broadcast blocks produced by validators to public network. It is optional, validator can receive RPC call or P2P messages directly from public network, but the validator would have security risks. Validator can setup 1 or more sentry nodes, which could make it more robust. And validators can also share sentry nodes to save some resource cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Validator-Sentry**(optional): it acts as a bridge between the public network and a validator. Transactions can be sent to this sentry node through RPC calls or through the current P2P protocol, then it will forward transactions to the corresponding validator nodes. It will also broadcast blocks produced by validators to public network. It is optional, validator can receive RPC call or P2P messages directly from public network, but the validator would have security risks. Validator can setup 1 or more sentry nodes, which could make it more robust. And validators can also share sentry nodes to save some resource cost.
```

> - **Validator-Proxy**(optional): in case validator don’t want to expose itself to public network, it could authorise one or more proxy nodes to connect to the VDN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Validator-Proxy**(optional): in case validator doesn’t want to expose itself to public network, it could authorise one or more proxy nodes to connect to the VDN.
```

When the validator receives the block, it sends the current pending txs to the next inturn validator.

## 4. Backwards Compatibility
### 4.1 Validator Operator
Operators would need to change their node's network configuration to integrate VDN. They would need fully understand the new topology and may setup the validator-sentry and validator-proxy node respectively. They may also need to monitor their network quality to provide good network quality.

### 4.2.RPC Providers And Other Full Nodes Operators

> Depends on the strategy of the RPC providers and other full nodes, they may connect to validator-sentry nodes directly, so it would have lower latency and user's transaction would be protected as these transaction would not be leaked to public txpool. But they can also choose to not connect to validator-sentry nodes directly and forward transactions to validators through a different route path.

Reviewer: I have a question here, how do the RPC Provider/full node find the validator's address that they could send txs to?

Author: validator-sentry nodes are public, maybe we can provide a RPC API to get the all validator-sentry node's info.

> Depends on the strategy of the RPC providers and other full nodes, they may connect to validator-sentry nodes directly, so it would have lower latency and user's transaction would be protected as these transaction would not be leaked to public txpool. But they can also choose to not connect to validator-sentry nodes directly and forward transactions to validators through a different route path.

Author: ```suggestion
Depends on the strategy of the RPC providers and other full nodes, they may connect to validator-sentry nodes directly, so it would have lower latency and user's transaction would be protected as these transaction would not be leaked to public txpool. But they can also choose to not connect to validator-sentry nodes directly and forward transactions to validators through a different route path. The public network composed by these full nodes will mainly help on block syncing, while transaction will not be gossiped in this public network.
```

### 4.3 MEV
This BEP would have great impact to MEV ecosystem, as the public txpool would be gradually replaced by validator directed txpool, which means transactions would be forwarded to validators directly.
- MEV searchers would have to get the transactions from validators, which would be more difficult.

> - MEV builders can still act as a bridge between searchers and validators, but the impact to searchers would impact builders indirectly.

Reviewer: Do we need to add a public p2p network compatibility part?
